# Virtual machines in GCP
GCP allows us to create virtual machines on the Compute engine with a variety of Operating systems. We can also later on connect these VM's with another servers. 

Virtual machines are deployed on systems spread across regions further divided into zones. So VMs live in a zone and to ad any additional GCP resource to it both will be needed to be in the same zone. Also we can assign a static IP to the VM instance if in the same zone.

[More on Zones and Regions](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/regions-zones)

**What you'll do**

* Create a virtual machine with the GCP Console

* Create a virtual machine with gcloud command line

* Deploy a web server and connect it to a virtual machine

**Google CLoud Shell**

Google Cloud Shell is a virtual machine that is loaded with development tools. It offers a persistent 5GB home directory and runs on the Google Cloud. Google Cloud Shell provides command-line access to your GCP resources.

## Create a new instance

In the GCP Console, on the top left of the screen, select Navigation menu > Compute Engine > VM Instances:

You can create a new instance or import a container.

**Configuration Parameters**

Field|Value|Additional Information
-|-|-
Name|gcelab| 
Region|us-central1 (Iowa) or asia-south1 (Mumbai)|Learn more about regions in Regions & Zones documentation.
Zone|us-central1-c or asia-south1-c|Note: remember the zone that you selected, you'll need it later. Learn more about zones in Regions & Zones documentation.
Machine Type|2 vCPUs|This is a (n1-standard-2),2-CPU, 7.5GB RAM instance. There are a number of machine types, ranging from micro instance types to 32-core/208GB RAM instance types. Learn more in the Machine Types documentation. Note: A new project has a default resource quota, which may limit the number of CPU cores. You can request more when you work on projects outside of this lab.
Boot Disk|New 10 GB standard persistent disk.                  OS Image: Debian GNU/Linux 9 (stretch)|There are a number of images to choose from, including: Debian, Ubuntu, CoreOS as well as premium images such as Red Hat Enterprise Linux and Windows Server. See Operating System documentation for more detail.
Firewall|Check Allow HTTP traffic|Check this option so to access a webserver that you'll install later. Note: This will automatically create firewall rule to allow HTTP traffic on port 80.

To we also launch an SSH client to access this instance

[More on SSH connection](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/instances/connecting-to-instance)

## Installing NGINX Web server

1. Get root access
    ```
    sudo su -
    ```
2. Update OS
    ```
    apt-get update
    ```
3. Install NGINX
    ```
    apt-get install nginx -y
    ```
4. Check that NGINX is running
    ```
    ps auwx | grep nginx
    ```
5. Simply access the NGINX web server through the instance's external IP.

## Create an instance with gcloud CLI tools
 Run the gcloud command 

```
gcloud compute instances create [ instance-name ] --machine-type -[ machine type: n1-standard-2 ] --zone -[ zone name : us-central1-a ]
``` 
**[Custom machine types](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/instances/creating-instance-with-custom-machine-type)**

Run gcloud compute instances create --help to get default command params

### Connect to instance through gcloud ssh
```
gcloud compute ssh [ instance name :gcelab2 ]  --zone=[ YOUR_ZONE : us-central1-a ]
```

### Setting default compute zones
```
gcloud config set compute/zone [ZONE_NAME] 
``` 